Welcome to the PDF Sapience Operational Product Costing module.
In today’s manufacturing world, end-to-end visibility between finance and operations is critical.
Every decision from planning to production depends on understanding cost, performance, and profitability in real time.
PDF Operational Product Costing provides that clarity, connecting operations and finance in one unified view.
Let’s start with the intelligence dashboards and reports.
Before exploring the analytics in detail, it’s important to understand how the OPC Intelligence platform is structured.
The platform includes five major analytical dashboards designed for different user needs across finance and operations, including organization, cost overview, manufacturing, quality, process, material analysis, and cost segments.
For example, we want to quickly see whether the twenty-eight nanometer node has any emerging issues that require corrective action.
We start at the organizational cost overview and select the twenty-eight nanometer technology to identify the product and fab combination with the highest total cost, which is the ARM Cortex processor from Fab A.
From there, we drill into process area variances and continue deeper into MES operation variances to pinpoint which manufacturing steps are driving cost differences.
At this point, instead of manually comparing charts, we use SAP Joule to explore the business question directly, using our OPC analytics and Sapience Manufacturing Hub production data.
In this example, we ask Joule to identify the main cost contributor to the variance for the ARM Cortex processor produced in Fab A, and to provide an executive summary with trend and anomaly analysis using natural language.
Joule helps users analyze both SAP financial data and manufacturing operations data synchronized through SMH.
Joule helps surface the key insight.
The largest contributor to the cost variance is CMP slurry, a critical material used in the chemical mechanical polishing process.
The analysis shows material cost is approximately four hundred thirteen thousand dollars under budget, representing about sixteen percent of the total variance.
Joule also summarizes the overall cost position.
Actual cost is sixty-three point four million dollars, compared to a planned cost of sixty-four point eight million, resulting in a one point four million dollar favorable variance.
For executives, this provides a clear and immediate understanding of where the financial difference originates.
Joule then helps users drill deeper into the manufacturing operations driving the variance.
Here we see the top MES operations contributing to cost differences.
Gate Poly deposition and dielectric deposition both show significant savings compared to plan.
Instead of manually reviewing multiple reports, Joule helps surface the most relevant operational signals instantly.
Next, we ask Joule to go a step further.
Rather than simply listing variances, we use natural language to ask Joule to prioritize top cost issues based on financial impact and operational risk.
Joule helps users focus on three key areas requiring attention.
First, CMP slurry material cost.
While the cost appears favorable, Joule highlights a potential risk.
Second, Gate Poly deposition.
Although costs are lower than expected, Joule flags that reduced material usage or process changes may impact long-term yield or product quality.
Third, Final Test operations exceed plan, and testing bottlenecks at this stage can affect cycle time, throughput, and delivery schedules.
This prioritized view helps executives focus immediately on the issues that matter most.
Finally, we ask Joule to recommend specific action items.
Because Joule understands both business context and operational data, it helps guide users toward targeted, cross-functional actions.
This example illustrates the power of combining SAP Joule with PDF Operational Product Costing analytics and SMH data integration.
Instead of manually analyzing multiple systems, teams can ask simple business questions and quickly receive clear financial insights, operational drivers, and recommended next steps.
With SMH providing a complete, consistent foundation of operational data, and SAP Joule turning that data into clear, actionable intelligence, manufacturers can connect what happens in the fab to what matters in the business.
It is a unified path from production reality to enterprise decisions, enabling faster insights, smarter operations, and more confident execution across the value chain.